# SONiC Workgroups                    

| Workgroups | Mailing List | Status | Workgroup Charter | Workgroup Meeting |
| -----------| ------------ | ------ | ----------------- | ----------------- |
| [5G SAI APIs](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/sai-5g-workgroup)  | SAI-5G-workgroup@googlegroups.com   |    | To focus on 5G SAI API's.  | currently not active |
| [Breakout Workgroup](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/sonic-breakout-workgroup)  | sonic-breakout-workgroup@googlegroups.com  | Done for now   | 1.  To focus on dynamic port break related feature development. <br> 2.  This group will also work on usecase creation and testing of usecase. <br> **Note:** This group will converge soon with SONiC main community group.  | currently not active |
| [EVPN Workgroup](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/sonic-evpn-workgroup)  |  sonic-evpn-workgroup@googlegroups.com  | Done for now   | To focus on EVPN VXLAN high level design review and development of the feature. <br> **Note:** This group will converge soon with SONiC main community group.  | Bi-Weekly Meeting on Wednesday 9:00 AM PST  <br> [Join](https://teams.microsoft.com/dl/launcher/launcher.html?url=%2f_%23%2fl%2fmeetup-join%2f19%3ameeting_MjgzMjc2ZjktODFhMy00MDRmLWIyY2ItY2QxYTExZDk2YzE5%40thread.v2%2f0%3fcontext%3d%257b%2522Tid%2522%253a%252272f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47%2522%252c%2522Oid%2522%253a%2522b5f6c4b7-cf14-4d72-9286-67c5dd665736%2522%257d%26anon%3dtrue&type=meetup-join&deeplinkId=9c1b700e-083b-4377-97e7-56ebfde692e0&directDl=true&msLaunch=true&enableMobilePage=true&suppressPrompt=true)  |
| [Management Workgroup](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/sonic-mgmt-workgroup)  | sonic-mgmt-workgroup@googlegroups.com   | Inactive  | 1.  Simplify and Standardize SONiC management <br> 2.  Make SONiC management DevOps friendly <br> 3.  Industry standard CLI for SONiC config validations and error feedback  |   currently not active   |
| [MLAG Workgroup](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/sonic-mlag-workgroup)  | sonic-mlag-workgroup@googlegroups.com  | Done for now  | 1.  To provide user options to choose a different version of MLAG to implement in the network. <br> 2.  Co-existence of Nephos & BRCM in SONiC code base and letting the user to choose as per their requirement. <br> 3.  To enable cross-functional collaboration by incorporating different MLAG control plane frameworks.  <br> **Note:** This group will converge soon with SONiC main community group. Regular sub-group meetings are completed. Users can continue to use this sub-group for future communication related to this topic. |  currently not active   |
| [SAI L4LB workgroup](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/sai-l4lb-workgroup)  | SAI-L4LB-workgroup@googlegroups.com   | Done for now  | To focus on SAI APIs for load balancing implementation.  | currently not active  |
| [SAI ECMP Workgroup](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/sai-ecmp-workshop)  | SAI-ecmp-workgroup@googlegroups.com  | Done for now   | To focus on ECMP related features. The discussion would include features supporting ecmp like ecmp hashing, related SAI APIs, etc..  | Every week on Friday 2:30 PM PST <br> [Join](https://teams.microsoft.com/dl/launcher/launcher.html?url=%2f_%23%2fl%2fmeetup-join%2f19%3ameeting_YWMyNWY5MzctZWE0NC00N2JjLWExZDUtMmViNmU2YjI2ZTgy%40thread.v2%2f0%3fcontext%3d%257b%2522Tid%2522%253a%252272f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47%2522%252c%2522Oid%2522%253a%25226ec1c385-4930-42a4-8749-5addb41bab7e%2522%257d%26anon%3dtrue&type=meetup-join&deeplinkId=3e58c332-686f-4451-b26d-7c0d272a2be2&directDl=true&msLaunch=true&enableMobilePage=true&suppressPrompt=true)   |
| [SAI IPSEC Subgroup](https://groups.google.com/g/sai-ipsec-subgroup)    | sai-ipsec-subgroup@googlegroups.com | Active | This subgroup is for SAI support for IPSEC.| Bi-Weekly Meeting on Wednesday 8:00 AM PST <br> [Join](https://teams.microsoft.com/dl/launcher/launcher.html?url=%2F_%23%2Fl%2Fmeetup-join%2F19%3Ameeting_ZjhlYjNiNTMtMGFiOC00ODY2LTk3M2UtZjhmOTQ4NDU0NWE2%40thread.v2%2F0%3Fcontext%3D%257b%2522Tid%2522%253a%252272f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47%2522%252c%2522Oid%2522%253a%25226553fca1-990b-411c-8d4a-82854d467e60%2522%257d%26anon%3Dtrue&type=meetup-join&deeplinkId=b2479a76-e3ab-4155-b6e8-f8ea68510b03&directDl=true&msLaunch=true&enableMobilePage=true&suppressPrompt=true&promptSuccess=true) |
| [SAI Security Workgroup](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/sai-security-workgroup)  | SAI-security-workgroup@googlegroups.com   |    | To focus on focus on security related APIs, e.g. DDOS .  |     |
| [SONiC Application Workgroup](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/sonic-application-workgroup)  | sonic-application-workgroup@googlegroups.com | Active | **Note:** This group will converge soon with SONiC main community group. Regular sub-group meetings are completed. Users can continue to use this sub-group for future communication related to this topic.  |     |
| [SONiC Chassis Subgroup](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/sonic-chassis-subgroup)  | sonic-chassis-subgroup@googlegroups.com | Active | To focus on implementing SONiC on Chassis systems.  | Bi-Weekly Meeting on Wednesday 10:00 AM PST <br> [Join](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_YzhiMDA5N2QtMjljMC00Y2M2LWEwY2YtM2Q3MGY0MjU3ODYx%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%2272f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%22b6e80a9a-b59a-4ed6-aa34-57db61fdb82e%22%7d) |
| [SONiC-Documentation-Workgroup](https://groups.google.com/g/sonic-documentation-workgroup) | sonic-documentation-workgroup@googlegroups.com | Active | To focus on documenting the SONiC Progress and its Updates | Every week on Tuesday 9:30 PM PST <br> [Join](https://www.google.com/url?q=https%3A%2F%2Fzoom.us%2Fj%2F94629353147&sa=D&ust=1707638400000000&usg=AOvVaw1yrgxue0flljp0_QPPiYU0) |
| [SONiC DASH Workgroup](https://groups.google.com/g/sonic-dash) | sonic-dash@googlegroups.com | Active | This subgroup is to discuss Disaggregated APIs for SONiC Hosts (DASH), define the DASH APIs for several SDN scenarios. | Every Wednesday on 9:00 AM PST <br> [Join](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_NTgxMjljZTEtOWRjMS00YWZhLWE1NDUtMjVkM2ZiYjE3OWU0%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%2272f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%223aaecd02-399e-443f-b1c6-c6a1fc4623a4%22%7d) |
| [SONiC Hotswap Workgroup](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/sonic-hotswap-workgroup)  | sonic-hotswap-workgroup@googlegroups.com  |    | **Note:** This group will converge soon with SONiC main community group. Regular sub-group meetings are completed. Users can continue to use this sub-group for future communication related to this topic.  |     |
| [SONiC Kubernetes Subgroup](https://groups.google.com/g/sonic-kubernetes-subgroup) | sonic-kubernetes-subgroup@googlegroups.com | Active | To focus on implementing SONiC Kubernetes | Bi-Weekly Meeting on Friday 8:00 AM PST <br> [Join](https://teams.microsoft.com/dl/launcher/launcher.html?url=%2F_%23%2Fl%2Fmeetup-join%2F19%3Ameeting_MzRmOTZlZmUtNzMwMi00MmY5LTg1MTMtYjQ5Yzg4NGM2Njdj%40thread.v2%2F0%3Fcontext%3D%257b%2522Tid%2522%253a%252272f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47%2522%252c%2522Oid%2522%253a%252275b2fd9d-9f03-425f-947c-631119387160%2522%257d%26anon%3Dtrue&type=meetup-join&deeplinkId=537e890f-e54e-4552-991b-77907ed9e319&directDl=true&msLaunch=true&enableMobilePage=true&suppressPrompt=true)  |
| [SONiC MPLS Workgroup](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/sonic-MPLS-workgroup) | sonic-MPLS-workgroup@googlegroups.com | Active | This group will focus on enabling SONiC to support MPLS. |  |
| [SONiC Platform Workgroup](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/sonic-platform-workgroup) | sonic-platform-workgroup@googlegroups.com | Active | This sub-workgroup is to discuss the platform specific features like "Media settings enhancements" in SONiC. | No weekly meeting |
| [SONiC-PINS Subgroup](https://groups.google.com/g/sonic-pins-subgroup/) | sonic-pins-subgroup@googlegroups.com | Active | This subgroup is for PINS which extends SONiC with an Software-Defined Networking (SDN) interface and P4 programmable pipeline. |  |
| [SONiC-OTN Workgroup](https://lists.sonicfoundation.dev/g/sonic-wg-otn) | sonic-wg-otn+subscribe@lists.sonicfoundation.dev | Active | This group will focus on enabling SONiC to support optical transport networking equipment, including  <br> \- Optical transponders/muxponders  <br>  \- Optical line equipment such as optical amplifiers, wavelength selective switches. \- Optical DWDM/Grey pluggable modules on switching/routing equipment    | Bi-Weekly Meeting on Wednesday 7:00 PM ET <br> [Join](https://zoom.us/j/98942429307) |
| [SONiC Working Group on Routing](https://lists.sonicfoundation.dev/g/sonic-wg-routing)    | sonic-wg-routing@lists.sonicfoundation.dev | Active | This group will focus on enabling working group on Routing Area -- Routing Performance/Scale etc.  | Every week on Friday 5:30 PM PST <br> [Join](https://www.google.com/url?q=https%3A%2F%2Fzoom.us%2Fj%2F95239140213&sa=D&ust=1707569700000000&usg=AOvVaw1FogwDLyTNoRYmiBIa9Qlp) |
| [SONiC Yang Subgroup](https://groups.google.com/g/sonic-yang-subgroup)    | sonic-yang-subgroup@googlegroups.com | Active | To focus on implementing SONiC Yang | Bi-Weekly Meeting on Thursday 10:00 AM PST <br> [Join](https://www.google.com/url?q=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.microsoft.com%2Fmicrosoft-teams%2Fjoin-a-meeting&sa=D&ust=1707569700000000&usg=AOvVaw0VYNInq9CnsAYcqz13WI21) |
| [Testing Workgroup](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/sonic-test-workgroup)  | sonic-test-workgroup@gmail.com   | Active  | 1.  Testbed improvement. <br> 2.  Pytest framework enhancement <br> 3.  Pytest conversion from ansible test. <br>  4.  Specific/new tests <br> 5.  Visualized DUT with data plane capabilities <br> 6.  One(AKA, Crystalnet) integration (open source) <br> For detailed SONiC test-workgroup charter click [here](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/sonic-test-workgroup/OD_UhjqlZ9Y). | Bi-Weekly Meeting on Wednesday 11:00 AM ET <br> [Join](https://www.google.com/url?q=https%3A%2F%2Fzoom.us%2Fj%2F99087459425&sa=D&ust=1707569700000000&usg=AOvVaw17qOcCIF7zOHAZfF49ADym) |
| [UMF Working Group](https://lists.sonicfoundation.dev/g/umf-working-group) | umf-working-group@lists.sonicfoundation.dev | Active | * Coordinate work on UMF to increase both development velocity and quality at the same time <br> * For close cooperation between all contributors to the UMF code <br> 	- Agree on coding and testing standards <br> 	- Consider all important use cases <br> 	- Discuss and decide on the direction of the evolution of UMF <br> * Bring awareness and transparency across SONiC community about new features roadmap. | Every month on the Third Wednesday 1:00PM PST <br> [Join](https://zoom.us/j/95111021846) |
| [VRF Workgroup](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/sonic-vrf-workgroup)  | sonic-vrf-workgroup@googlegroups.com   | Active  | SONiC VRF enhancement <br> *   VRF HLD 1.1 PR review, timeline. <br> *   VRF CLI reconciliation. *   Nephos test script availability. <br> *   Config DB migrator fix.  <br> **Note:** This group will converge soon with SONiC main community group. Regular sub-group meetings are completed. Users can continue to use this sub-group for future communication related to this topic.  | currently not active |
